== Class Documentation

=== Simple Example with a Barren Class

Given a file +lib/example.rb+ containing a minimally documented and
essentially barren class:

    # This class is documented.
    class ExampleClass
    end

Running the script through shomen command line interface, regardless of which
underlying parser is used, should produce a data structure conforming to the
Shomen standard data format having the following characteristics.

The data structure should have three entries.

  @shomen.keys.assert.include?('(metadata)')
  @shomen.keys.assert.include?('ExampleClass')
  @shomen.keys.assert.include?('/lib/example.rb')

The `ExampleClass` entry should have a "bang" type of `class`.

  @shomen['ExampleClass']['!']  #=> 'class'

It should have a name of `ExampleClass`.

  @shomen['ExampleClass']['name']  #=> 'ExampleClass'

While the namespace should be an empty string because the class is defined
at the toplevel.

  @shomen['ExampleClass']['namespace']  #=> ''

The full `path` field will be the same as the name for the same reason.

  @shomen['ExampleClass']['path']  #=> 'ExampleClass'

The `superclass` will be Object.

  @shomen['ExampleClass']['superclass']  #=> 'Object'

The `comment` field will as given in the script.

  @shomen['ExampleClass']['comment']  #=> "This class is documented."

And the `files` field should list only `/lib/example.rb`.

  @shomen['ExampleClass']['files']  #=> ['/lib/example.rb']

Notice that the leading root slash `/` is part of the file name. This refers
to the root of the project, as opposed to the root of one's file system, and
makes it easier to lookup files in the index, the the root slash is used to 
distinguish file names from other entries.

Since out example class is barren the remaining fields will either be 
missing (i.e. `nil`) or empty collections.

  @shomen['ExampleClass']['constants'].to_a      #=> []
  @shomen['ExampleClass']['modules'].to_a        #=> []
  @shomen['ExampleClass']['classes'].to_a        #=> []
  @shomen['ExampleClass']['methods'].to_a        #=> []

